To display product details, you'll need to add a table, add rows and
cells to place details like the quantity, description,
price, line total, and etc. And also, add some formatting to the cell content.
Back in the code, go to the addProductDetails method. Add this
line of code to create a table on the document.
Now this will create an empty table with one row and
one column added to it by default.
Then to access that row, call the getRow method on the table
like this, passing in 0 as the row index.
After that,
you can access the default added cell in that row by calling
getCell method on the row, passing in index 0.
You can call the setText method and set the content
to be displayed inside the cell.
Let's continue to add the rest of the rows and cells as well.
To add another cell in the first row, write this line of code,
calling addNewTableCell method.
This code adds more cells to the row.
We need to add four columns to the table.
Next,
we need to create the productDetails rows. For that, look through
the QuoteItems list that's passed into the method. Inside the for
loop, for each QuoteItem, create a new row in the table now by
calling the createRow method.
Remember,
the createRow method creates a new row with as many cells as the
already defined number of columns, which, in this case, is 4. Then
get the first cell in the row like this and set text to it. Do the
same for the rest of the columns.
In the third column, we display the price.
The price will need to be formatted using a number format, so you
can simply create a number format like this,
passing the Locale as en US as we need to show the dollar symbol.
Then, in the fourth column,
lineTotals will be calculated and displayed, applying the same number
format. Then outside the loop, create more rows using the createRow method
to display the Sub Total, Tax, and Total. Access those cells by calling the
getCell method and set values to them.
Notice that we are displaying the value in the fourth
column in the table and the label Sub Total, Tax, and Total
in the third column in the table.
The subTotal value should be calculated inside the for
loop. And using the number format, format the value and display it in the cell.
Apply the number format to taxValCell as well.
Compute the total, and apply the number format to it as
well when displaying it in the cell.
Now, at this point,
if you want to see how the document looks like, call the
addProductDetails method inside the generateQuotation method.
Save and run.
You should now see a table added to the document like this; however, the table and its cell content isn't fully formatted.